
This guide will help you to install and begin using your application. The guide will also help
you understand the functionalities provided by the application. The following sections are included
in this guide:

		1. Environment requirements.
		2. Installing and launching the application.
		3. Using the application.
			3.1. Search for contractors
			3.2. Book contractors to a given customer
			3.3. Cancel bookings
	
1. Environment requirements.

The application was build with jdk version 1.7.0 and runs with java version 1.7.0. These or later 
versions will be required to run the application. If you wish to re-build the application on your
environment, follow section 2 on how to extract the application jar. Navigate to the 
suncertify/code directory and run the following commands in a command prompt:

		ant clean
		ant dist
		ant javadoc

	
2. Installing and Launching the application.

To install the application, download the suncertify.jar file. Place it in an appropriate directory
and and open a command prompt in the same directory. To extract the contents, run the following command
in the command prompt:
		
		jar -xvf suncertify.jar

A directory named suncertify will be created containing all the files for the application.
The directory contains among other files an executable jar named runme.jar. This is the application's
jar file.

The application can launch as a standalone application or as a client server application. To launch
in standalone mode run the following command in the directory containing the runme.jar file:
	
		java -jar runme.jar alone

A GUI will promt you to accept the current settings read from the properties file or to enter new
settings. Proceed accordingly and the application will launch in standalone mode.

The application can also be launched as a client-server system. You need to launch the server in the
server machine and the client on the client machine. To launch the server in the server machine, open
a command prompt in the suncertify directory and run the following command:

		java -jar runme.jar server
	
A GUI will prompt you to accept the current port number for the server to listen on and the path to
the database directory or to enter new settings. After you confirm settings the GUI will close and
the server will be launched on the command line.

On the client machine (or on a separate command prompt on the same machine), navigate to the 
suncertify directory and launch a commmand prompt. Run the following command:

		java -jar runme.jar
		
Provide no command line options. A GUI will prompt you to accept current location of the server and
port number the server is listening to. If these are correct i.e. the server is on that location,
click yes to launch the client or otherwise, click no to enter new settings. These settings will
be persisted in the properties file and future launches will use then. The client and the GUI will
then launch.

	
3. Using The Application.

Once you have confirmed database settings, the application launches the main window. The application provides
three(3) use cases. They include searching for contractors, booking contractors to a customer and 
cancellation of bookings.

3.1. Searching for Contrators.
The search functionality allows you to fetch all records or records satisfying a name and/or location criteria.
Enter name and/or location of the contractor in the left side panel and click on the Get Records button.
All records starting with the string entered in the respective fields will be displayed on the results table.
To get all records click Get All Records button or leave the criteria fields blank and click Get Records button.

3.2. Booking contractors to a customer.
To make bookings, select records to be booked by checking their checkboxes at the last field of the displayed
records on the table. You can select as many records as required but do not select records that are already 
booked to another customer i.e. records with a value on the owner field. Click the Book Contractors button.
If you had included records which are already booked in your selection you will be prompted to deselect them
before proceeding. You will be prompted to enter the 8-digit customer number. Enter the number and 
click ok. You will be prompted to confirm the customer number. Click yes and the records will be updated 
accordingly.

3.3. Cancellation of bookings.
The application enables you to cancel bookings to records previously booked. Select the booked records and click
cancel booking button. You will be prompted to confirm the cancellation and if you click yes the records will be
updated accordingly.